-for data types
byte, short, int , long, float, double , char, boolean

Primitive Data types(in bytes):
	byte: 1
	short: 2
	integer (int): 4
	long: 8 (23.23l)—needs to have a l in the end
	float:4 (232.23f) –needs to have a f in the end
	double: 8
	boolean: T or F (1bit)
	char: 2 
	
Non-primitive:
	String

Access Modifier
Private - class
default - class, package
protected - class, package, subclass
Public - class, package, subclass, world


flow control	
if , else, switch, case, default, for , do , while, break, continue, return
if -  make a conditional
else - conditional, activates when the rest of the if, else if conditions are not met.

switch- The switch case in java executes one statement from multiple ones. Thus, it is like an if-else-if ladder statement. 

default- The default keyword the default block of code in a switch statement. The default keyword specifies some code to run if there is no case match in the switch.
for- create a loop

do: Java do keyword is used in the control statement to declare a loop. followed by while look

while: Java while loop is a control flow statement that allows code to be executed repeatedly based on a given Boolean conditio

break: It is used to terminate loops and switch statements in java. When the break keyword is encountered within a loop, the loop is immediately terminated and the program control goes to the next statement following the loop.
continue :The continue keyword is used to end the current iteration in a for loop (or a while loop), and continues to the next iteration.

return- marks the end of a method that has a return type.

modifiers

static variable and method-Attributes and methods belongs to the class, rather than an object.A static variable acts as a global variable and is shared among all the objects of the class
static block- init.Is used to initialize the static data member. It is executed before the main method at the time of classloading.
static class- A static nested class may be instantiated without instantiating its outer class. Inner classes can access both static and non-static members of the outer class. A static class can access only the static members of the outer class.
final var/methods- Attributes and methods cannot be overridden or modified
final class- The class cannot be inherited by other classes
abstract class- A class which is declared with the abstract keyword is known as an abstract class in Java. It can have abstract and non-abstract methods (method with the body).
abstract method- The method does not have a body. The body is defined by the subclass (inherited from).
synchronized- Methods can only be accessed by one thread at a time
native- The native keyword is used to declare a method which is implemented in platform-dependent code such as C or C++.
strictfp- Used for restricting floating-point calculations and ensuring same result on every platform while performing operations in the floating-point variable.
transient- Attributes and methods are skipped when serializing the object containing them.
volatile- The value of an attribute is not cached thread-locally, and is always read from the "main memory". More precisely that means, that every read of a volatile variable will be read from the computer's main memory, and not from the CPU cache, and that every write to a volatile variable will be written to main memory, and not just to the CPU cache.
exception 
try- The try keyword creates a try-catch statement. The try statement allows you to define a block of code to be tested for errors while it is being executed.
catch- The catch statement allows you to define a block of code to be executed, if an error occurs in the try block.
handling

package:
a group of similar types of classes, interfaces and sub-packages.
Package in java can be categorized in two form, built-in package and user-defined package.
Advantage
1) Java package is used to categorize the classes and interfaces so that they can be easily maintained.
2) Java package provides access protection.
3) Java package removes naming collision.



import, extends, implements, 
interface:
Blueprint of class
Method define in interface is by default public and abstract
Interface attributes are by default public, static and final
Cannot create object of an interface
No constructor
When a class implement an interface, need to override all methods
Support multiple inheritance in java, extends multiple interface


object related keywords
new: 
used to create an instance of the class
It is used to create the object.
It allocates the memory at runtime.
All objects occupy memory in the heap area.
It invokes the object constructor.
It requires a single, postfix argument to call the constructor


instanceof- The java “instanceof” operator is used to test whether the object is an instance of the specified type (class or subclass or interface).

super
a reference variable which is used to refer to immediate parent class objects.
Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable
Usage
super can be used to refer to an immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke the immediate parent class method.
super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

this
can be used to refer to the current class instance variable. 
If there is ambiguity between the instance variables and parameters, this keyword resolves the problem of ambiguity

